docs/v2-system-addon/preferences.md, before:

# Preferences in Activity Stream

## Preference branch

The preference branch for activity stream is `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.`.
Any preferences defined in the preference configuration will be relative to that
branch. For example, if a preference is defined with the name `foo`, the full
preference as it is displayed in `about:config` will be `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo`.

## Defining new preferences

All preferences for Activity Stream should be defined in the `PREFS_CONFIG` Array
found in [lib/ActivityStream.jsm](../../system-addon/lib/ActivityStream.jsm).
The configuration object should have a `name` (the name of the pref), a `title`
that describes the functionality of the pref, and a `value`, the default value
of the pref. Optionally a `getValue` function can be provided to dynamically
generate a default pref value based on args, e.g., geo and locale. For
developers-specific defaults, an optional `value_local_dev` will be used instead
of `value`. For example:

```js
{
  name: "telemetry.log",
  title: "Log telemetry events in the console",
  value: false,
  value_local_dev: true,
  getValue: ({geo}) => geo === "CA"
}
```

## Reading, setting, and observing preferences from `.jsm`s

To read/set/observe Activity Stream preferences, construct a `Prefs` instance found in [lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm](../../system-addon/lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm).

```js
// Import Prefs
XPCOMUtils.defineLazyModuleGetter(this, "Prefs",
  "resource://activity-stream/lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm");

// Create an instance
const prefs = new Prefs();
```

The `Prefs` utility will set the Activity Stream branch for you by default, so you
don't need to worry about prefixing every pref with `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.`:

```js
const prefs = new Prefs();

// This will return the value of browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo
prefs.get("foo");

// This will set the value of browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo to true
prefs.set("foo", true)

// This will call aCallback when browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo is changed
prefs.observe("foo", aCallback);

// This will stop listening to browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo
prefs.ignore("foo", aCallback);
```

See [toolkit/modules/Preferences.jsm](https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/modules/Preferences.jsm)
for more information about what methods are available.

Commit message:

docs(mc): (nobug) Add a note about how to set test values for prefs

docs/v2-system-addon/preferences.md, after:

# Preferences in Activity Stream

## Preference branch

The preference branch for activity stream is `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.`.
Any preferences defined in the preference configuration will be relative to that
branch. For example, if a preference is defined with the name `foo`, the full
preference as it is displayed in `about:config` will be `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo`.

## Defining new preferences

All preferences for Activity Stream should be defined in the `PREFS_CONFIG` Array
found in [lib/ActivityStream.jsm](../../system-addon/lib/ActivityStream.jsm).
The configuration object should have a `name` (the name of the pref), a `title`
that describes the functionality of the pref, and a `value`, the default value
of the pref. Optionally a `getValue` function can be provided to dynamically
generate a default pref value based on args, e.g., geo and locale. For
developers-specific defaults, an optional `value_local_dev` will be used instead
of `value`. For example:

```js
{
  name: "telemetry.log",
  title: "Log telemetry events in the console",
  value: false,
  value_local_dev: true,
  getValue: ({geo}) => geo === "CA"
}
```

### IMPORTANT: Setting test-specific values for Mozilla Central

If a feed or feature behind a pref makes any network calls or would other be
disruptive for automated tests and that pref is on by default, make sure you
disable it for tests in Mozilla Central.

You should create a bug in Bugzilla and a patch that adds lines to turn off your
pref in the following files:
- layout/tools/reftest/reftest-preferences.js
- testing/profiles/prefs_general.js
- testing/talos/talos/config.py

You can see an example in [this patch](https://github.com/mozilla/activity-stream/pull/2977).

## Reading, setting, and observing preferences from `.jsm`s

To read/set/observe Activity Stream preferences, construct a `Prefs` instance found in [lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm](../../system-addon/lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm).

```js
// Import Prefs
XPCOMUtils.defineLazyModuleGetter(this, "Prefs",
  "resource://activity-stream/lib/ActivityStreamPrefs.jsm");

// Create an instance
const prefs = new Prefs();
```

The `Prefs` utility will set the Activity Stream branch for you by default, so you
don't need to worry about prefixing every pref with `browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.`:

```js
const prefs = new Prefs();

// This will return the value of browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo
prefs.get("foo");

// This will set the value of browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo to true
prefs.set("foo", true)

// This will call aCallback when browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo is changed
prefs.observe("foo", aCallback);

// This will stop listening to browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.foo
prefs.ignore("foo", aCallback);
```

See [toolkit/modules/Preferences.jsm](https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/modules/Preferences.jsm)
for more information about what methods are available.
